About
Colegio de San Juan de Letran Calamba was established on March 11, 1979 in Barangay Bucal, Calamba City, Laguna, in an 11-ha rolling site at the foot of Mt. Makiling.
On August 7, 1986, Letran Calamba was granted autonomy by its mother institution (Letran Intramuros) with Rev. Fr. Tamerlane Lana, O.P. as its first Rector and President.

Mission
We, the Colegio de San Juan de Letran Calamba, a Catholic educational institution, commit ourselves to the total human development, and better quality of life 
of our students, faculty, and employees, and the promotion ofb genuine community through an education that is Filipino, Dominican, and Christian in orientation.

Vision
In a Culture of Conscience, Discipline, and Excellence, we envision Letran Calamba as a University, a center of Science and technology, as well as a vital formation 
center in the religious and socio-economic development of the region.



Administration

Rector's Office
	- External Relations
		- Admissions and Marketing Unit
		- Alumni
	- Planning and Operations
	- Research and Quality Management
		- Quality Management
		- Research

Office of the Vice President for Academics
	- Library Services Department
	- Registrar's Department
		Schools
		- Basic Education Department
		- Grade School to Junior High School (BED GS-JHS)
		- BED Senior High School Department (BED SHS)
		- Graduate School (GS)
		- School of Business, Management, and Accountancy (SBMA)
		- School of Computer Studies and Technology (SCST)
		- School of Education, Arts, and Sciences (SEAS)
		- School of Engineering and Architecture (SEA)
		- School of Nursing (SN)
		- School of Tourism and Hospitality Management (STHM)

Office of the Vice President for Administration
	- Human Resource Department (HRD)
	- Information Technology Department
	- Facilities Management and General Services Department (FMGSD)

Office of the Vice President for Finance
	- Accounting Services Department (ASD)
	- Financial Services Department (FSD)

Office of the Vice President for Religious Education, Mission and Identity
	- Campus Ministry Department (CMD)
	- Community and Extension Services Department (CESD)
	- Religious Education Department (RED)	
	- Student Services Department (StSD)



Our History
Colegio de San Juan de Letran Calamba was once described as a fusion between "tradition and vision". Let this host of stories unfold as a testimony to that 
contradictory blend.

The Colegio's Historical Records
Its story started in March 1979 when it was founded by its mother-institution, Letran Intramuros. It is the first institution of higher learning established 
by the Dominican Province of the Philippines; the rest having been put up by the Spanish Dominicans.

The idea of putting up a Dominican school in Laguna was triggered by the move to decentralize DPPI schools in Manila. Further, a close consideration was also 
that of bringing Letran to another home place of a hero - our national icon: Dr. Jose Rizal.

Letran Manila was touted as the alma mater of our great heroes such as Manuel Quezon, Sergio Osmeña, Apolinarion Mabini, Gregorio del Pilar, Fransisco Balagtas, 
and Emilio Aguinaldo. From 1979, Letran Calamba has established a good name in quality education, strong research efforts, and responsive community service and 
extension activities. Hence, in 1986, it was granted autonomy by Letran Manila. It has since become a respected higher educational institution. It operates within 
the principles of Filipino, Dominican, and Christian education - within the contexts of excellence, conscience, and discipline. Its curricular programs range from 
its flagship engineering courses to specialized offerings on information technology, business management, hospitality management, education, arts and sciences, 
nursing, and professional studies.

The Here and Now
For the last decades, the Colegio can boast of accomplishments in quality learning and instruction, infrastructure development, research undertakings, and 
community service. The institution has a pool of more than 250 qualified mentors, most of them equipped with graduate degrees. Engineering and communication 
students manage the institution's own radio station, Knight 103.9 FM. Hotel and Restaurant Management students operate fully equipped mini-hotel in the campus. 
Computer Science and Information Technology majors, on the other hand, enjoys the use of the Information Technology and Computer Center, a facility provided with 
700 top-of-the-line computer units. Research efforts were rewarded with CHED Region IV's award for the best HEI Student Research Program given January 2007. 
Community Service is felt through the tradition and advocacy of Makipamuhay, a social immersion program being sustained by the Colegio for years. It has also 
put up Hayuma an internationally-funded project where skilled workers from Laguna communities are working.

Our Routes
All these and more triggered the Colegio to venture into accreditation and certification efforts. These are moves to further substantiate the institution's adherence 
to quality standards. This is another part of our institution's grand narrative.

The Colegio has pursued various quality management efforts reflecting the institution's drive towards management of quality assurance. Letran Calamba has started 
its application for Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities Commission on Accreditation (PACUCOA) accreditation in November 2008. The Federation 
of Accrediting Association of the Philippines (FAAP) awarded to 50% of the Colegio's program LEVEL I Formal Status and 18.18% of the programs with Level 
II First Reaccredited Status. The Colegio was also awarded with the highest number of candidate programs in the Philippines for two consecutive years (2011 and 2012). 
In addition, the Colegio has been awarded as the institution with the highest number of Level 1 accredited programs in the Philippines during the 
25th PACUCOA General Assembly.

Also, the Colegio was granted the ISO 9001:2008 certification on November 28, 2013. The Colegio's pursuit of quality management continues with its recent 
engagement with a national quality award. The quality management efforts of the Colegio prove the contention that quality is a continuous and rigorous pursuit 
which is worth doing well.



PHILOSOPHY AND OBJECTIVES

Vision
In a Culture of Conscience, Discipline, and Excellence, we envision Letran Calamba as a university, a center of science and technology, as well as a vital formation 
center in the religious and socio-economic development of the region.

Mission
We, the Colegio de San Juan de Letran Calamba, a Catholic educational institution, commit ourselves to the total human development, and better quality of 
life of our students, faculty, and employees, and the promotion of a genuine community through an education that is Filipino, Dominican, and Christian in orientation.

Institutional Principles
A Culture of Conscience, Discipline, and Excellence inspired by Filipino, Dominican, and Christian ideals and values.

Institutional Quality Policy
To realize the institutional vision and to fulfill the mission of Letran Calamba, the Colegio commits itself to deliver consistently quality education to 
its students and quality service to its stakeholders through a relevant outcomes-based instruction, sustained research and community extension culture, 
and continually improved quality management systems.

Institutional Quality Objectives
1. To develop qualified and productive professionals who can effectively contribute to the growth of the nation
2. To maintain and continually strive for a corps of competent administrators, faculty, employees and alumni who shall endeavor to attain the Colegio's mission and vision
3. To promote solidarity with the larger community through programs that are responsive to its needs
4. To provide a wholesome and conducive educational environment for the Letran community

Institutional Core Values
	Based on the Supreme Ideals of Deus Patria Letran, the Colegio embraces the following core values:

DEVeloping & BEComing a DOMinican
	Doing What is Right
	Espousing a Sense of Community
	Valuing and Respecting Others

	Being Adaptable and Agile
	Executing a Visionary Leadership
	Promoting Customer-Driven Excellence

	Delivering Results
	Observing Continual Improvement
	Maintaining a Deep Affection for Life



Symbols

Seal of the Colegio
The Seal bears the Maltese Cross derived from the Knights of Malta, whose pious works earned for themselves a place of honor within the Church. 
The silver Cross, on a blue and red field encircled by a wreath of green laurels, symbolizes the pattern by which the spirit must grow - 
the silver purity of true and noble goals alone can triumph over difficulties; victory follows with a wreath of laurels.

The Seal also bears another symbol of the Colegio, her motto: DEUS, PATRIA, LETRAN; which embodies the Letranite's manner of offering deeds - 
to God first, the Country next, and Letran where his ideals are born.

Knighthood
The Letranite is personified by the Knight who goes through rigid tests from being a Page to a Squire when his heart and soul are many times tested for 
purity before he qualifies for the most trying challenge and then granted knighthood. As a knight, he carries the shield and the lance to protect not his 
body but his ideals as he fights for them with a pure heart.

The shield which carries the Silver Cross on a blue and red field encircled by a wreath of green laurels symbolizes the pattern by which the spirit must grow - 
the silver purity of true and noble goals alone can triumph over difficulties; victory follows with a wreath of laurels.

Blue and Red Colors
Blue stands for loyalty and justice and Red is for consummate bravery. The colors of Letran are Blue and red, not red and blue, symbolize that the nobility of 
the mind and the spirit should come before the bravery and courage are fired by a cause.



Career Opportunities

Colegio de San Juan de Letran Calamba, a private and Catholic educational institution, managed by the Dominican Order, is in need of:

For Manpower Pooling

BASIC EDUCATION TEACHERS
	- Graduate of Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education or its related course
	- Passed the Licensure Examination for Teachers
	- With at least two (2) years related experience

RELIGIOUS EDUCATION TEACHERS (BASIC EDUCATION)
	- Graduate of Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education Major in Religious Education and Values Education or its related course
	- Passed the Licensure Examination for Teachers
	- With at least one (1) year experience as Teacher or Parish Catechist

OTHERS:PHYSICS / CHEMISTRY / ENGLISH/ FOREIGN LANGUAGE (FRENCH / MANDARIN)/ MANAGEMENT/ MARKETING/ SOCIAL SCIENCES / MECHANICAL ENGINEERING / COMPUTER ENGINEERING / FILIPINO / PE FACULTY
	- Master's Degree holder
	- With work and teaching experience
	- Passed the licensure exam (if applicable)

DATE POSTED: March 16, 2021
Interested applicants must submit application letter, comprehensive resume with 2X2 photo, and photocopy of TOR at recruitment@letran-calamba.edu.ph or 
send them to the Human Resource Department (HRD), 3rd floor San Lorenzo Ruiz Building, Colegio de San Juan de Letran Calamba, Bucal, Calamba City, Laguna.



CAMPUS DIRECTORY

	Department/Office						|			Department Head				|	Local Number

											Office of the Rector and President
	Rector and President						|	Rev. Fr. Napoleon M. Encarnacion, O.P.			|	1100
	Operations Coordinator and Auditor				|	Rev. Fr. Michael M. Sales, O.P.				|	5001
	Secretary General						|	Dr. Floricon V. Encabo					|	3002
	Director, Quality Management Department				|	Dr. Loriemel E. Ferrera					|	2078
	Director, Research Department					|	Dr. Michelle L. Ventanilla				|	2023

											Office of the VP Academics
	Vice President for Academics					|	Dr. Corazon B. Rebong					|	2000
	Dean, Graduate School						|	Dr. Simplicio P. Alba					|	2058
	Principal, BED Pre-School to Junior High School			|	Ms. Gina S. Navarez					|	2058
	Principal, Senior High School (SHS)				|	Dr. Lorenzo C. Romabiles, III				|	2058
	Dean, School of Business, Management and Accountancy		|	Dr. Maria Cristina C. Caymo				|	2023
	Dean, School of Computer Studies and Technology			|	Dr. Loriemel E. Ferrera					|	2078
	Dean, School of Education, Arts and Sciences			|	Dr. Maria Milagrosa M. Ocenar				|	2023
	Officer-in-Charge, School of Engineering and Architecture	|	Engr. Christopher V. Gonzales				|	2023
	Acting Dean, School of Nursing					|	Ms. Ma. Cherry G. Tanodra				|	2023
	Dean, School of Tourism and Hospitality Management		|	Dr. Michelle L. Ventanilla				|	2023
	Chief Librarian, Library Services Department			|	Ms. Evelyn P. Nabus					|	5017
	School Registrar, Registrar's Department			|	Ms. Eloisa A. Genota					|	2050/2052/2069

											Office of the VP for Administration
	Vice President for Administration				|	Rev. Fr. Napoleon M. Encarnacion, O.P.			|	2038
	Facilities Management and General Services			|	Rev. Fr. Napoleon M. Encarnacion, O.P.			|	5008
	Safety and Security Officer					|	Mr. Andrei V. Infante					|	5009
	Director, Human Resource Department				|	Ms. Maresann V. Garcia					|	2038/4001
	Medical and Dental Clinic					|	Ms. Maresann V. Garcia					|	2060/2061
	Director, Management Information Services			|	Ms. Ela Rose B. Nagpala					|	4000
	Director, Admissions and Marketing				|	Ms. Sharon A. Malaiba					|	2039/2038
											
											Office of the VP for Finance
	Officer-in-Charge for Finance					|	Rev. Fr. Napoleon M. Encarnacion, O.P.			|	5000/5002
	Financial Services						|	Ms. Rosario M. Palomeno					|	5027/5004/5018
	Accounting Services						|	Ms. Monette B. Mendez					|	5006/5024
											
											Office of the VP for Religious Education 
												and Mission Identity
	Vice President for REMI						|	Rev. Fr. Dennis E. Maquiraya, O.P.			|	6001
	Director, Campus Ministry Department				|	Mr. Romeo D. Banatlao					|	6007/6008
	Director, Religious Education Department			|	Ms. Yolando C. Lazo					|	2027
	Director, Community and Extension Services Department		|	Ms. Yolando C. Lazo					|	3006
	Director, Student Services Department				|	Ms. Ann Reshier G. Bayugo				|	2042/2041


For inquiries, you may call
Landline: (049) 545 - 5453
Admissions and Scholarship Office:
Local 2038 / 2039
Email: admissions@letran-calamba.edu.ph
Registrar's Department:
Local 2052/2069
Email: registrar@letran-calamba.edu.ph
School of Business, Management, and Accountancy:
Local 2024
Email: sbma@letran-calamba.edu.ph
School of Computer Studies and Technology:
Local 2027
Email: scst@letran-calamba.edu.ph
School of Engineering and Architecture:
Local 2030
Email: se@letran-calamba.edu.ph
School of Education, Arts, and Sciences:
Local 2018
Email: seas@letran-calamba.edu.ph
School of Nursing:
Local 2036
Email: sn@letran-calamba.edu.ph
School of Tourism and Hospitality Management:
Local 2053
Email: sthm@letran-calamba.edu.ph

Basic Education
In Letran Calamba, we offer your children the basic foundations they need to face their daily challenges. 
The Basic Learning in Letran Calamba is composed of Pre-school, Elementary, Junior High-school, and Senior High School Levels.
With a year round full of fun and engaging academic activities. What are you waiting for? Enroll now!

Undergraduate
In Letran Calamba, we offer your children the next levels of knowledge that they will need to face their daily challenges. 
The Undergraduate Learning in Letran Calamba is composed of Pre-school, Elementary, Junior High-school, and Senior High School Levels.
With a year round full of fun and engaging academic activities. What are you waiting for? Enroll now!


Graduate
In Letran Calamba, we offer your children the basic foundations they need to face their daily challenges. 
The Basic Learning in Letran Calamba is composed of Pre-school, Elementary, Junior High-school, and Senior High School Levels.
With a year round full of fun and engaging academic activities. What are you waiting for? Enroll now!
