School of Computer Studies and Technology

Philosophy and Objectives

About the Office
The School of Computer Studies and Technology is the arm of the Colegio that manages the courses BS Computer Science, BS Information Technology and BS in Entertainment 
and Multimedia Computing Specializing in Digital Animation Technology and Game Development. The school also manages all the rooms (except for surfing laboratory room) 
present at the St. Thomas Aquinas Building or the ITCC Building.

VISION
The School of Computer Studies and Technology envisions itself as a Center of Development in Information Technology Education by year 2021, sustaining its commitment 
by producing faith-centered, competitive, and well equipped students.

MISSION
The school commits itself to holistically develop students' ICT computing skills and other stakeholders' professional competencies for their productive careers that 
will continuously contribute to the development of the country through technological leadership that is Filipino, Dominican, and Christian in orientation.

QUALITY OBJECTIVES
1. To provide students with quality programs in the fields of computing and information technology education that are in demand and responsive to the national 
and international industry needs.
2. To deliver relevant and quality computing and information technology curricular programs that promote the Colegio as one of the nationally and internationally 
recognized educational institutions.
3. To continually prepare and improve the administrators, faculty members, and staff to deliver quality instruction and support services that will effectively 
and efficiently contribute to the delivery of programs.



Program Offerings

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN COMPUTER SCIENCE (BSCS)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Three to five years after graduation, the BS Computer Science (BSCS) alumni shall:

1. Advance their practice in the field of Computer Science;
2. Assume a higher level of responsibility in the same or related field;
3. Manifest proper ethical principles and values founded on a Filipino, Dominican and Christian orientation; and
4. Continually pursue lifelong learning endeavors.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon completion of BS Computer Science (BSCS), the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience and excellence with Filipino, Dominican, and Christian in 
orientation, must be able to:

1. Articulate and discuss the latest developments in the specific field of practice.
2. Act in recognition of professional, social and ethical responsibility.
3. Preserve and promote “Filipino and cultural Heritage.
4. Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves
5. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds
6. Analyze complex problems and identify and define the computing requirements need to design solution.
7. Apply computing and other knowledge domains to address real-world problems.
8. Design and develop computing solutions using a system level perspective.
9. Utilize modern computing tools.
10. Apply knowledge of computing fundamentals, knowledge of a computing specialization, and mathematics, science, and domain knowledge appropriate for the 
computing specialization to the abstraction and conceptualization of computing models, from defined problems and requirements.
11. Identify, analyze, formulate, research literature, and solve complex computing problems and requirements reaching substantiated conclusions using fundamental 
principles of mathematics, computing sciences and relevant domain disciplines.
12. Apply mathematical foundations, algorithmic principles, and computer science theory in the modeling and design of computer based systems, in a way that 
demonstrates comprehension of the tradeoffs involved in design choices.
13. Apply knowledge and understanding of information security issues in relation to the design, development and use of information systems..
14. Design and evaluate solutions for complex computing problems, and design and evaluate systems, components, or processes that meet specified needs with appropriate
consideration for public health and safety, cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
15. Create, select, adapt, and apply appropriate techniques, resources and modern computing tools, to complex computing activities, with an understanding of the 
limitations to accomplish a common goal.
16. Function effectively as an individual and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
17. Communicate effectively with the computing community and with society at large about complex computing activities, by being able to comprehend and 
write effective reports, design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and understand clear instructions.
18. Recognize the legal, social, ethical and professional issues involved in the utilization of computer technology and be guided by the adoption of appropriate 
professional, ethical, and legal practices.
19. Recognize the need, and have the ability to engage in independent learning for continual development as computing professional.



BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (BSIT)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Three to five years after graduation, the BS Information Technology (BSIT) alumni shall:

1. Advance their practice in the field of Information Technology;
2. Assume a higher level of responsibility in the same or related field;
3. Manifest proper ethical principles and values founded on a Filipino, Dominican and Christian orientation; and
4. Continually pursue lifelong learning endeavors.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon completion of BS Information Technology (BSIT), the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience and excellence with Filipino, Dominican, and Christian 
in orientation, must be able to:

1. Articulate and discuss the latest developments in the specific field of practice
2. Act in recognition of professional, social, and ethical responsibility.
3. Preserve and promote Filipino historical and cultural heritage (based on RA No. 7722).
4. Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves.
5. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds.
6. Analyze complex problems and identify and define the computing requirements needed to design an appropriate solution.
7. Apply computing and other knowledge domains to address real-world problems.
8. Design and develop computing solutions using a system level perspective.
9. Utilize modern computing tools.
10. Apply knowledge of computing, science and mathematics appropriate to the discipline.
11. Understand best practices and standards and their applications.
12. Identify and analyze user needs and take them into account in the selection creation evaluation and administration computer based systems.
13. Design, implement and evaluate computer-based systems processes, components or programs to meet desired needs and requirements under values constraints.
14. Integrate IT-based solutions into the user environment effectively.
15. Apply knowledge through the use of current techniques, skills, tools and practices necessary for the IT profession.
16. Function effectively as an individual and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
17. Assist in the creation of an effective IT project plan.
18. Communicate effectively with the computing community and read society at large about complex computing activities through writing presentations and clear instructions.
19. Analyze the local and global impact of computing information technology on individual’s organizations and society.
20. Understand professional ethical legal security and social issues and responsibilities in the utilization of information technology.
21. Recognize the need for and engage in planning self-learning and improving performance as foundation for continuing professional development.



BS ENTERTAINMENT AND MULTIMEDIA COMPUTING

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Three to five years after graduation, the BS Entertainment and Multimedia Computing (BS-EMC) alumni, specializing in 
Digital Animation Technology/Game Development shall be able to:

1. Advance their expertise in Entertainment and Multimedia Computing and/or in their chosen field of specialization inspired by the Dominican culture of 
Conscience, Discipline, and Excellence.
2. Contribute to the improvement of quality of life through technological and/ or innovative design projects.
3. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Program outcomes cover the competencies presumably gained by the student immediately after graduating from his/her chosen degree program. Listed below are 
the program outcomes of BS –EMC specializing in Digital Animation Technology/Game Development:

1. Apply knowledge of mathematics, physical sciences, computing sciences to the practice of one’s discipline
2. Formulate and solve computing problems
3. Design, build, improve, and deploy products that meet client needs within realistic constraints
4. Use the appropriate techniques, skills, and modern computing tools necessary for the practice of being a professional in one’s field.
5. Analyze project requirements, design and implement project prototypes
6. Function effectively in multi-cultural and multi-disciplinary teams to accomplish a common goal
7. Practice professional, ethical, legal, security and social responsibilities related to one’s career
8. Communicate effectively with a range of audiences
9. Engage in continuing professional development
10. Subscribe to accepted industry standards that create a positive impact to society
11. Demonstrate original creative and innovative outputs
12. Demonstrate client-centric service
13. Create or use modified artifacts in consideration of intellectual property rights of the author
14. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds.



Administrators and Staff
Dean / Faculty			|	Dr. Loriemel E. Ferrera
Administrative Assistant I	|	Rhodora B. Maunahan
Chair				|	Gima B. Montecillo
Faculty				|	Mark Anthony J. Esmeralda
Faculty				|	Salem M. Laylo
Chair				|	Gima B. Montecillo
Faculty				|	Glodelyn D.L. Ocfemia
Faculty				|	Magnolia R. Quiatchon
Faculty				|	Anna Liza A. Ramos	
Faculty				|	Jorge F. Resurreccion
Faculty				|	Gene Christhopher P. Romuga



Contact Us

Our Address
Location: 3F, Sto. Tomas de Aquino Building
Ipil-ipil St. Bucal, Calamba City Laguna, Philippines 4027
Email Address: scst@letran-calamba.edu.ph
Dean's Office:(049) 545- 5453 local 2078
Admin Assistant: local 2027
Chair's Office/Faculty Room: local 2027