School of Nursing

Philosophy and Objectives

About the Office
The School of Nursing is the arm of the Colegio that manages BS Nursing program.

VISION
The School of Nursing of Colegio de San Juan de Letran Calamba envisions itself as a CENTER of Excellence in nursing education, research, practice, and service.

MISSION
The School of Nursing of Colegio de San Juan de Letran Calamba commits to enhance the quality of life of individuals, families, and diverse communities locally 
and globally by upholding the culture of conscience, discipline and excellence in nursing education, research, practice and service.

QUALITY OBJECTIVES
1. To form conscientious, disciplined, and excellent students and graduates through Dominican programs which are quality-focused, 
industry-aligned, competency based, and glocally competitive.
2. To sustain the academic program's high standards of quality, excellence, and relevance to promote the Colegio as 
one of the nationally and internationally recognized institutions.
3. To continually prepare and improve the administrators, faculty members, and staff to deliver quality instruction and support services that will 
effectively contribute to the delivery of programs.



Services

- CHED Autonomous
- PACUCOA Level III Reaccreditation Status
- ISO 9001:2015 Accredited
- Has consistently produced passers in the Philippine Nursing Licensure Examination since 2008
- Nursing Alumni leading the profession locally and internationally



Milestones

- CHED Autonomous
- PACUCOA Level III Reaccreditation Status
- ISO 9001:2015 Accredited
- Has consistently produced passers in the Philippine Nursing Licensure Examination since 2008
- Nursing Alumni leading the profession locally and internationally



Programs Offerings

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN NURSING (BSN)

CO-CURRICULAR PROGRAMS

A. MIND Management of Instruction by (Letranite) Nurses for Development towards Quality of Life of Diverse Individuals, Families, Communities, and Populations 
in Varied Settings

Through evidence-based and innovative seminars, training, and workshops in conjunction with inter, intra, and multi-disciplinary, and multi-cultural teams, 
the MIND program aims to strengthen the competencies of Letranite Nurses in the promotion of health and the prevention of illness. This will improve 
the quality of life for a wide range of people in a wide range of places and situations.

B. HEART Health Education, Assessment, Research and Training in Primary Health Care.
This program is the advocacy thrust of the School of Nursing in its Community Extension Activities.

C. ARRIBA SPIRIT
The goal of this program is to deepen the Nursing Letranite's strong dedication and conviction to Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in their thoughts, 
words, and actions.

Alumni, administrators, instructors, and students in the School of Nursing are collaborating and assisting one another in clinical practice, education, and research.

D. TEST The Excellent Strategies in Test-taking
This program is designed to help Nursing Letranites prepare for them to pass their local and international Board of Nursing Examinations.

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
The graduate of the Bachelor of Science in Nursing(BSN) can perform the following competencies in their profession.

1. Advance their practice in the field of Nursing;
2. Assume a higher level of responsibility in the same or related field;
3. Manifest proper ethical principles and values founded on a Filipino, Dominican and Christian orientation; and
4. Continually pursue lifelong learning endeavors.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
The graduates of the Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) shall have the following attributes/competencies:

1. Apply knowledge of physical, social, natural and health sciences and humanities in the excellent and innovative practice of nursing guided by Letranite values.
2. Provide safe, appropriate and holistic care to individuals, families, population groups and communities utilizing the nursing process
3. Apply guidelines and principles of evidence – based practice in the delivery of care
4. Practice nursing in accordance with existing laws, legal, ethical and moral principles.
5. Communicate effectively in speaking, writing and presenting using culturally appropriate language
6. Document to include reporting up-to-date client care accurately and comprehensively.
7. Work effectively in collaboration with inter, intra and multi-disciplinary and multi -cultural teams
8. Practice beginning management and leadership skills in the delivery of client care and in health program development using systems approach as a Letranite Nurse.
9. Conduct research with an experienced researcher.
10. Engage in purpose driven lifelong learning with a passion to keep current with national and global developments in general, and nursing and health developments in particular.
11. Demonstrate responsible citizenship and pride of being Filipino
12. Apply techno-intelligent care systems and processes in health care delivery
13. Adopt the nursing core values in the practice of the profession as a Letranite Nurse.
14. Apply entrepreneurial skills in the delivery of nursing care.
15. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words and deeds.



Administrators and Staff
Dean				|	Maria Cherry G. Tanodra
Administrative Assistant I	|	Gene Christian B. Alegre
Faculty				|	Analin P. Bacelonia
Faculty				|	Rosarina L. David
Faculty				|	Cecilia R. Dilag
Faculty				|	Jonathan Q. Ibalio
Faculty				|	Margarita M. Samson
Faculty				|	Javier Benjamin M. Tongol
Faculty				|	Janine O. Villamer



Contact Us
Our Address
Location: 1st Floor, St. Martin de Porres Building
Ipil-ipil St. Bucal, Calamba City Laguna, Philippines 4027
Email: sn@letran-calamba.edu.ph
(049) 545- 5453 local 2035
Admin Assistant: local 2036
Information Desk: 545-5453 local 0