School of Business, Management, and Accountancy

Philosophy and Objectives

ABOUT
The School of Business, Management, and Accountancy shall provide quality and relevant business education to its students and eventually produce 
graduates more responsive and industry ready in both local and international settings.

VISION
To be a recognized premier academic institution dedicated to educational distinction and producers of exceptional business professionals ready 
to meet the challenges of a domestic and globalized business environment grounded by the Dominican values and culture of conscience, discipline, and excellence.

MISSION
The School of Business, Management and Accountancy commits to develop responsive and productive professionals and entrepreneurs by providing 
quality business curricular programs that are imbued with Filipino, Dominican and Christian attitudes and principles.

QUALITY OBJECTIVES
1. To continually deliver quality business education through outcomes-based instruction and quality departmental services to the stakeholders.
2. To continually elevate the accreditation level of the business education curricular programs.
3. To strengthen the technical and professional competencies of administrators, faculty members, and support personnel.



Programs Offerings

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ACCOUNTANCY (BSA)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
The Bachelor of Science in Accountancy aims to train individuals to become competent, ethical, and glocal financial and accounting practitioners who can

1. Perform professional auditing, assurance, accounting and financial services anchored on professional ethics and moral values;
2. Objectively design, develop and evaluate accounting systems;
3. Conduct accounting and finance related research in organizing people and resources to create value;
4. Contribute to the economic development as responsible partners of the government and stakeholders through managing and/or establishing income generating 
centers where they portray the roles of strategic business partners and change agents and/or consultants, as entrepreneurs, or managers in government agencies 
such as those in internal revenues, finance, and trade and industries; and
5. Impart and share expertise to those in the academe and those pursuing continuing professional development.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon completion of the Bachelor of Science in Accountancy, the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience, discipline, and excellence with Filipino, 
Dominican, and Christian orientation must be able to

1. Apply business knowledge, management concepts and ethical knowledge and skills to perform quality work in the field of accounting, auditing and finance;
2. Continue to update himself/herself through professional affiliation, training and further studies to acquire proficiency in international perspective;
3. Manifest the value of Christian stewardship by providing accurate and fairly presented financial and non-financial reports to stakeholders; and
4. Communicate effectively as a professional accounting, finance and management practitioner.



BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (BSBA)
MAJOR IN HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT (HRDM)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, major in Human Resource Development Management, aims to train individuals to become competent and 
ethical glocal Human Resource professionals and management practitioners who can

1. Perform human resource development functions proficiently;
2. Serve as change leaders in organizational development;
3. Provide human resource consulting to different organizations;
4. Serve as labor relations mediator; and
5. Contribute to the economic development as responsible partners of the government and stakeholders through managing business organizations where they 
portray the roles of strategic business partners and change agents and/or consultants, as entrepreneurs, or managers of government agencies such as those 
in the department of labor and employment.


PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon completion of the Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, major in Human Resource Development Management, the graduate, who is trained in a 
culture of conscience, discipline, and excellence, with Filipino, Dominican, and Christian orientation, must be able to:

1. Apply business knowledge, management concepts and ethical leadership skills to guide the organization in people development;
2. Continue to update himself/herself through professional affiliation, training and further studies in human resource development and labor relations;
3. Manifest the value of Christian stewardship in creating a safe and fair working environment compliant with regulatory agencies’ standards;
4. Design the program that will enhance the organization’s management of its people and processes; and
5. Communicate effectively as a professional and management practitioner.



BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (BSBA)
MAJOR IN MARKETING MANAGEMENT (MKM)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, major in Marketing Management, aims to train individuals to become marketing and management 
practitioners who will be able to

1. Develop and implement a comprehensive marketing plan for any type of product, service or business competently and guided by Christian values and ethical practices;
2. Serve the greater good by creating innovative and beneficial products and services for the Filipino people;
3. Utilize the marketing mix to solve marketing problems and identify marketing opportunities;
4. Conduct marketing research and utilize marketing intelligence system in organizing people and resources to create value;
5. Contribute to the economic development as responsible partners of the government and stakeholders through managing and/or establishing income generating 
centers where they portray the roles of strategic business partners and change agents and/or consultants, as entrepreneurs, or managers in government agencies 
such as those in trade and industries; and
6. Impart and share expertise to those in the acaseme and those pursuing continuing professional development.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon completion of the Bachelor of Science in Business Administration major in Marketing Management, the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience, 
discipline, and excellence, with Filipino, Dominican, and Christian orientation, must be able to

1. Apply business knowledge, management concepts and ethical knowledge and skills to perform quality work and be a trailblazer in the marketing field;
2. Continue to update himself/herself through professional affiliation, training and further studies to acquire proficiency in international perspective;
3. Manifest the value of Christian stewardship in creating new products and services beneficial to people; and
4. Communicate effectively as a professional marketing and management practitioner.



Administrators and Staff

Officer-in-Charge		|	Dr. Carmel N. Hemedez
Administrative Assistant II	|	Maria Luisa E. Reyes
Chair / Faculty			|	Lalaine C. Manguiat
Co-Chair / Faculty		|	Olivia G. Panganiban
Faculty				|	Airon B. Aguirre
Faculty				|	Marvin O. Austral
Faculty				|	Rodelyn A. Badulis
Faculty				|	Ann Reshier G. Bayugo
Faculty				|	Priscila Gwendolyn R. Caparas
Faculty				|	Dr. Maria Cristina C. Caymo
Faculty				|	Rafael R. Mula
Faculty				|	Ela Rose B. Nagpala
Faculty				|	Philip Manuel T. Padayao
Faculty				|	Ralph Raymund C. Piñon
Faculty				|	Magnolia R. Quiatchon
Faculty				|	Rosalie A. Resurreccion
Faculty				|	Edizer J. Resurreccion
Faculty				|	Michael Angelo D. Reyes
Faculty				|	Reynaldo R. Robles
Faculty				|	Ruben A. San Mateo
Faculty				|	Glicerio F. Sancon
Faculty				|	Ricardo F. Wagan
In-house Review Lecturer	|	Antonio Eriberto C. Cabug
In-house Review Lecturer	|	John Bo S. Cayetano
In-house Review Lecturer	|	Bee Jay L. De Leon
In-house Review Lecturer	|	Mark Chito D. Fajiculay
In-house Review Lecturer	|	Louie Gene G. Marasigan
Food & Health Services Officer	|	Ilynn P. Mauleon
In-house Review Lecturer	|	Amado R. Villegas



Contact Us

Our Address
Location: 2F Bartolome Delas Casas Building
Ipil-ipil St. Bucal, Calamba City Laguna, Philippines 4027
Email: sbma@letran-calamba.edu.ph
(049) 545- 5453 local 2023
Admin Assistant: local 2024

