School of Education, Arts, and Sciences

Philosophy and Objectives

About the Office
The School of Education, Arts and Sciences (SEAS) provides learning opportunities related to academic disciplines of Education, Arts and Sciences. It is also 
in-charge of the general education curriculum of all Schools and Institutes of the Colegio.

VISION
The School of Education, Arts, and Sciences is envisioned to cultivate Christian spirituality, academic creativity, and artistry in a conscientious mind and 
disciplined body toward achieving excellence among students.

MISSION
The School of Education, Arts, and Sciences is committed to be the intellectual heart that pumps academic strength and energy to the different schools and 
institutes of the Colegio by providing general education faculty committed and dedicated to help carry over the vision and mission of the Colegio.

QUALITY OBJECTIVES
1. To form conscientious, disciplined, and excellent students and graduates through Dominican programs which are quality focused, industry aligned, competency based, 
and glocally competitive.
2. To sustain the academic program's high standards of quality, excellence, and relevance to promote the Colegio as one of the nationally and internationally 
recognized institutions.
3. To continually prepare and improve the administrators, faculty members, and staff to deliver quality instruction and support services that will contribute 
to the delivery of programs.



Programs Offerings

BACHELOR OF ARTS IN COMMUNICATION (ABCOM)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
The AB Communication Program intends to prepare the graduates to achieve the following educational objectives:

1. Manifest high quality of job performance and apply a well-rounded communication process in the workplace with focus and emphasis on media and 
communication professions;
2. Assume career works in areas as excellent media and communication practitioners, leaders, advertising managers, multimedia designers, researchers, 
communications analysts, technical writers, and professionals in jobs related to the field of mass communication; and
3. Display a deep level of understanding of the role of communication in social change over time and across the globe; expanding integrated perspective 
on complex media systems, technologies, communication strategies, and communication theory and history.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon completion of Bachelor of Arts in Communication (AB Comm), the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience and excellence with Filipino, Dominican, 
and Christian in orientation, must be able to:

1. Articulate and discuss the latest developments in the specific field of practice
2. Effectively communicate orally and in writing using English, Filipino, mother tongue language, and an appropriate Foreign Language required by the industry
3. Work effectively and independently in multidisciplinary and multi-cultural teams
4. Preserve and promote Filipino historical and cultural heritage (based on RA No. 7722)
5. Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves
6. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds
7. Apply social science concepts and theories to the analysis of social issues
8. Design and execute social science research using appropriate approaches and methods
9. Practice professional and ethical standards in the fields of social sciences and communication
10. Define and access information needs; assess and organize information and knowledge; produce, share and utilize information and knowledge
11. Communicate in different formats and platforms (print, broadcast, and online)
12. Prepare communication/media plan
13. Conduct communication and media research and evaluation
14. Develop and produce communication materials in different formats and platforms
15. Demonstrate communication management and leadership skills
16. Develop entrepreneurial capabilities
17. Adhere to ethical standards and practices
18. Know and practice rights and responsibilities and accountabilities in the communication profession
19. Demonstrate a development orientation in communication work
20. Apply communication theories/models, principles, practices and tools in development work



BACHELOR OF ELEMENTARY EDUCATION (BEEd)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Three to five years after graduation, the graduates of Bachelor of Elementary Education

1. Manifest basic and higher level literacy, communication, numeracy, critical thinking, and learning skills needed for higher learning;
2. Demonstrate and practice the professional and ethical requirements of the teaching profession;
3. Facilitate learning of diverse types of learners in multicultural learning environment;
4. Create and innovate alternative teaching approaches, take informed risks in trying out these innovative approaches, and evaluate the effectiveness of such 
approaches in improving student learning;
5. Assume leadership role in one’s career, profession, and community;
6. Engage in continuing professional development by pursuing post graduate studies and building professional links with colleagues to enrich teaching practice; and
7. Maintain stature and behaviour that uphold the dignity of teaching in addition to being competent and dedicated Filipino Christian teachers.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon completion of Bachelor of Elementary Education (BEEd), the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience and excellence with Filipino, Dominican, 
and Christian in orientation, must be able to:

1. Articulate and discuss the latest developments in the specific field of practice
2. Effectively communicate orally and in writing using English, Filipino, mother tongue language, and an appropriate Foreign Language required by the industry
3. Work effectively and independently in multidisciplinary and multi-cultural teams
4. Act in recognition of professional, social, and ethical responsibility
5. Preserve and promote Filipino historical and cultural heritage (based on RA No. 7722)
6. Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves
7. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds
8. Articulate the rootedness of education in philosophical, socio-cultural, historical, psychological, and political contexts
9. Demonstrate mastery of subject matter/discipline
10. Facilitate learning using a wide range of teaching methodologies and delivery modes appropriate to specific learners and their environments
11. Develop innovative curricula, instructional plans, teaching approaches, and resources for diverse learners
12. Apply skills in the development and utilization of ICT to promote quality, relevant, and sustainable educational practices
13. Demonstrate a variety of thinking skills in planning, monitoring, assessing, and reporting learning processes and outcomes
14. Practice professional and ethical teaching standards sensitive to the changing local, national, and global realities
15. Pursue lifelong learning for personal and professional growth through varied experiential and field-based opportunities
16. Demonstrate in-depth understanding of the diversity of learners in various learning areas
17. Manifest meaningful and comprehensive pedagogical content knowledge (PCK) of the different subject areas
18. Utilize appropriate assessment and evaluation tools to measure learning outcomes.
19. Manifest skills in communication, higher order thinking and use of tools and technology to accelerate learning and teaching.
20. Demonstrate positive attributes of a model teacher, both as an individual and as a professional.
21. Manifest a desire to continuously pursue personal and professional development



BACHELOR OF SECONDARY EDUCATION
MAJOR IN ENGLISH (BSE – Eng)
MAJOR IN MATHEMATICS (BSE – Math)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Three to five years after graduation, the graduates of Bachelor of Secondary Education, major in English or Mathematics are expected to:

1. Manifest basic and higher level literacy, communication, numeracy, critical thinking, and learning skills needed for higher learning;
2. Demonstrate and practice the professional and ethical requirements of the teaching profession;
3. Facilitate learning of diverse types of learners in multicultural learning environment;
4. Create and innovate alternative teaching approaches, take informed risks in trying out these innovative approaches, and evaluate the effectiveness of such approaches in improving student learning;
5. Engage in continuing professional development by pursuing post graduate studies and building professional links with colleagues to enrich teaching practice;
6. Maintain stature and behaviour that upholds the dignity of teaching in addition to being competent and dedicated Filipino Christian teachers; and
7. Assume leadership role in one’s career, profession, and community.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES

Bachelor of Secondary Education (BSE) major in English
Upon completion of Bachelor of Secondary Education (BSE) major in English, the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience and excellence with Filipino, 
Dominican, and Christian in orientation, must be able to:

1. Articulate and discuss the latest developments in the specific field of practice
2. Work effectively and independently in multidisciplinary and multi-cultural teams
3. Preserve and promote Filipino historical and cultural heritage (based on RA No. 7722)
4. Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves
5. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds
6. Articulate the rootedness of education in philosophical, socio-cultural, historical, psychological, and political contexts
7. Demonstrate mastery of subject matter/discipline
8. Facilitate learning using a wide range of teaching methodologies and delivery modes appropriate to specific learners and their environments
9. Develop innovative curricula, instructional plans, teaching approaches, and resources for diverse learners
10. Apply skills in the development and utilization of ICT to promote quality, relevant, and sustainable educational practices
11. Demonstrate a variety of thinking skills in planning, monitoring, assessing, and reporting learning processes and outcomes
12. Practice professional and ethical teaching standards sensitive to the changing local, national, and global realities
13. Pursue lifelong learning for personal and professional growth through varied experiential and field-based opportunities
14. Possess broad knowledge of language and literature for effective learning
15. Use English as a glocal language in a multilingual context as it applies to the teaching of language and literature
16. Acquire extensive reading background in language, literature, and allied fields
17. Demonstrate proficiency in oral and written communication
18. Shows competence in employing innovative language and literature teaching approaches, methodologies, and strategies
19. Use technology in facilitating language learning and teaching
20. Inspire students and colleagues to lead relevant and transformative changes to improve learning and teaching language and literature
21. Display skills and abilities to be a reflective and research-oriented language and literature teacher

Bachelor of Secondary Education (BSE) major in Mathematics
Upon completion of Bachelor of Secondary Education (BSE) major in Mathematics, the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience and excellence with 
Filipino, Dominican, and Christian in orientation, must be able to:

1. Articulate and discuss the latest developments in the specific field of practice
2. Effectively communicate orally and in writing using English, Filipino, mother tongue language, and an appropriate Foreign Language required by the industry
3. Work effectively and independently in multidisciplinary and multi-cultural teams
4. Preserve and promote Filipino historical and cultural heritage (based on RA No. 7722)
5. Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves
6. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds
7. Articulate the rootedness of education in philosophical, socio-cultural, historical, psychological, and political contexts
8. Demonstrate mastery of subject matter/discipline
9. Facilitate learning using a wide range of teaching methodologies and delivery modes appropriate to specific learners and their environments
10. Develop innovative curricula, instructional plans, teaching approaches, and resources for diverse learners
11. Apply skills in the development and utilization of ICT to promote quality, relevant, and sustainable educational practices
12. Demonstrate a variety of thinking skills in planning, monitoring, assessing, and reporting learning processes and outcomes
13. Practice professional and ethical teaching standards sensitive to the changing local, national, and global realities
14. Pursue lifelong learning for personal and professional growth through varied experiential and field-based opportunities
15. Exhibit competence in mathematical concepts and procedures
16. Exhibit proficiency in relating mathematics to other curricular areas
17. Manifest meaningful and comprehensive pedagogical content knowledge (PCK) of mathematics
18. Demonstrate competence in designing, constructing and utilizing different forms of assessment in mathematics
19. Demonstrate proficiency in problem-solving by solving and creating routine and non-routine problems with different levels of complexity
20. Use effectively appropriate approaches, methods, and techniques in teaching mathematics including technological
21. Appreciate mathematics as an opportunity for creative work, moments of enlightenment, discovery and gaining insights of the world



BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN PSYCHOLOGY (BSP)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
The BS Psychology program intends to achieve the following educational objectives for the graduates three to five years after graduation from the program:

1. Practice the professional and ethical conduct of psychology in the Filipino and International context;
2. Apply theoretical and professional knowledge, skills and Christian values in psychological assessment and interventions;
3. Communicate the results of psychological assessment and interventions to both specialist and non-specialist audiences;
Demonstrate a higher level of analytical, critical thinking and research skills specific to the discipline of psychology; and
4. Undertake further training for the continuous development of existing skills and acquire higher level of competencies through formal graduate education and employment.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon completion of Bachelor of Science in Psychology, the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience and excellence with Filipino, Dominican, 
and Christian in orientation, must be able to:

1. Articulate and discuss the latest developments in the specific field of practice
2. Effectively communicate orally and in writing using English, Filipino, mother tongue language, and an appropriate Foreign Language required by the industry
3. Work effectively and independently in multidisciplinary and multi-cultural teams
4. Preserve and promote Filipino historical and cultural heritage (based on RA No. 7722)
5. Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves
6. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds
7. Apply social science concepts and theories to the analysis of social issues
8. Design and execute social science research using appropriate approaches and methods
9. Practice professional and ethical standards in the fields of social sciences and communication
10. Demonstrate the capability to discuss and analyze the major theories and concepts in psychology
11. Demonstrate and apply the methods of psychological inquiry in building knowledge on local culture and context
12. Demonstrate and apply psychological theories and methods in personal and professional setting
13. Demonstrate capability for self-reflection and independent learning in graduate education or in a professional context
14. Demonstrate professional and ethical behaviors in research and practice in psychology
15. Demonstrate harmonious interpersonal relationship with colleagues, clients and others in diverse cultural setting.
16. Demonstrate the ability to conduct psychological assessments and evaluation



Administrators and Staff
Officer-in-Charge			|	Dr. Loriemel E. Ferrera
Administrative Assistant III		|	Melinda L. Montano
Chair					|	Audrey Vincentine S. Salud
Co-Chair / Faculty			|	Karren S. Ventura	
Faculty					|	Jasmin Gay A. Aguinaldo
Faculty					|	Alyssa Camille N. Azanza
Faculty					|	Felipe C. Baet
Faculty					|	Glenda T. Bagasol
Faculty					|	Bernardita C. Bautista	
Faculty					|	Rico Allan B. Bejasa
Faculty					|	Conrado M. Borromeo
Faculty					|	Demie S. Borromeo
Faculty					|	Geraldine M. Carlos
Faculty					|	Joeyette P. Cruz
Faculty					|	Precious A. Daytia
Faculty					|	Jennibelle R. Ella
Faculty					|	Mary May M. Fernando
Faculty					|	Cynthia S.M. Jacob
Faculty					|	Mary Ann B. Liboon
Faculty					|	Teobaldo Q. Magdamit
Faculty					|	Sharon A. Malaiba
Faculty					|	John Louie S. Marasigan
Faculty					|	Angelica C. Maravive
Faculty					|	John Jesus D. Meneses
Faculty					|	Jo-Ann M. Morales
Faculty					|	Christian Jasper C. Nicomedes
Faculty					|	Dr. Lalaine B. Ocampo
Faculty					|	Jayson N. Oliveros
Faculty					|	Ricamela S. Palis
Faculty					|	Jenette C. Pangilinan
Faculty					|	Krizsha Joy G. Paraiso
Faculty					|	Princess Elexies B. Rebong
Faculty					|	Glaziedhel S. Robles
Faculty					|	Dr. Lorenzo C. Romabiles
Faculty					|	Sherwin D. Yanoria
Faculty					|	Loreta A. Yarte
Faculty					|	Angelica C. Maravive
Laboratory Assistant I			|	Domingo S. Ofrin
Faculty					|	Eduardo P. Perez



Contact Us

Our Address
Location: 3F Bartolome Delas Casas Building
Ipil-ipil St. Bucal, Calamba City Laguna, Philippines 4027
Email: seas@letran-calamba.edu.ph
(049) 545- 5453 local 2017
Admin Assistant: local 2018
Information Desk: 545-5453 Local 0