School of Tourism and Hospitality Management

Philosophy and Objectives

About the Office
The school shall provide quality and relevant Tourism and Hospitality education to its students and eventually produce graduates that are more responsive and 
industry ready in both local and international settings.

VISION
The School of Tourism and Hospitality Management envisions itself to be recognized as the School of International Tourism and Hospitality Management and 
the Center of Development in Tourism and Hospitality Management in the region in the year 2020.

MISSION
In line with the Colegio's mission, the School commits to provide Tourism and Hospitality Management education imbued with Filipino, Dominican, and Christian values. 
The school endeavors to produce glocally competitive graduates in the field of Tourism and Hospitality Management through competency-based curriculum, 
industry-simulated facilities, and specialized instruction.

QUALITY OBJECTIVES
1. To provide students with quality programs in the fields of tourism and hospitality education that are in demand and responsive to the national and 
international industry needs.
2. . To deliver relevant and quality tourism and hospitality curricular and alternative learning programs that promote the Colegio as one of the 
nationally and internationally recognized educational institutions.
3. To continually prepare and improve the administrators, faculty members, and staff to deliver quality instruction and support services that will 
effectively and efficiently contribute to the delivery of programs.



Programs Offerings

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Three to five years after graduation, the graduates of Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BSHM) are expected to

1. Analyze challenges and respond with creativity and innovation as they manage successfully the daily operations in the workplace;
2. Communicate effectively in a multi-cultural environment
3. Keep updated through training, professional affiliation, research, and practice
4. Integrate Christian service and professional ethics in various areas of their career and profession.
5. Assume competent management role in the hospitality business and other related enterprise.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon completion of Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BSHM), the graduate, who is trained in a culture of conscience and excellence with Filipino, 
Dominican, and Christian in orientation, must be able to:

1. Articulate and discuss the latest developments in the specific field of practice
2. Effectively communicate orally and in writing using English, Filipino, mother tongue language, and an appropriate Foreign Language required by the industry
3. Work effectively and independently in multi-disciplinary and multi-cultural teams
4. Act in recognition of professional, social, and ethical responsibility
5. Preserve and promote Filipino historical and cultural heritage (based on RA No. 7722)
6. Perform the basic functions of management such as planning, organizing, leading, and controlling
7. Apply the basic concepts that underlie each of the functional areas of business (marketing, finance, human resources management, production and operations management, information technology, and strategic management) and employ these concepts in various business situations
8. Select the proper decision making tools to critically, analytically and creatively solve problems and drive results
9. Apply information and communication technology (ICT) skills as required by the business environment
10. Manage conflict in the workplace
11. Plan and implement business related activities
12. Demonstrate corporate and social responsibility
13. Exercise high personal, moral, and ethical standards
14. Demonstrate knowledge to the tourism industry local tourism products and services
15. Interpret and apply relevant laws related to the tourism industry
16. Observe and perform risk mitigation activities
17. Utilize information technology applications for tourism and hospitality
18. Manage and market a service oriented business organization
19. Demonstrate administrative and managerial skills in a service oriented business organization
20. Prepare and monitor financial transactions and reports
21. Perform human capital development functions of a tourism oriented organization
22. Utilize various communication channels proficiently in dealing with guests and colleagues
23. Produce food products and services complying with enterprise standards
24. Apply management skills in F and B service and operations
25. Perform and provide full guest cycle services for front office
26. Perform and maintain various housekeeping services for guest and facility operations
27. Plan and implement a risk management program to provide a safe and secure workplace
28. Provide food and beverage service and manage the operation seamlessly based on industry standards
29. Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves
30. Manifest strong commitment and conviction to the Christian and Dominican teachings and philosophy in thoughts, words, and deeds

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN TOURISM MANAGEMENT (BS TM)

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES
Three to five years after graduation, the graduates of BS Tourism Management are expected to

1. Analyze challenges and respond with creativity and innovation as they manage successfully the daily operations in the workplace;
2. Communicate effectively in a multicultural environment;
3. Keep updated through training, professional affiliation, research, and practice;
4. Integrate Christian service and professional ethics in various areas of their career and profession; and
5. Assume competent management role in the tourism business and other related enterprise.

PROGRAM OUTCOMES
Upon the completion of the BS Hotel and Restaurant Management, graduates must be able to

1. Create an effective service plan to meet operational goals and targets based on international standards;
2. Provide satisfactory and professional customer service in multi-cultural setting;
3. Communicate effectively their service plans and timely reports;
4. Creatively solve daily challenges in the workplace with professional competence;
5. Conduct an up-to-date research in their field of specialization through observation, training and practice; and
6. Articulate one's knowledge of the tourism business.



Administrators and Staff
Dean				|	Dr. Carmel N. Hemedez
Administrative Assistant III	|	Edwin S. Sanchez
Chair / Faculty			|	Kamlesh Devi C. Dhutti
Faculty				|	Bea Patricia T. Abello
Faculty				|	Christian C. Aguado
Faculty				|	Esmeralda S.P. Alhambra
Laboratory Assistant I		|	Irish G. Aranzaso



Contact Us
Our Address
Location: 2nd Floor, St. John Macias Building
Ipil-ipil St. Bucal, Calamba City Laguna, Philippines 4027
Email: sthm@letran-calamba.edu.ph
Dean:(049) 545- 5453 local 2064
Admin Assistant: local 2053
Information Desk: 545-5453 local 0